hey everyone welcome to this which is
video number six in an eight-part series
about communication tips for leaders in
the previous videos i gave you all sorts
of tips such as
asking questions and how that is going
to make you a more effective
communicator as a leader
or this thing called the huddle video
number two i explain what the huddle is
all about
and i even gave you some public speaking
tips and in today's video
this is the video for those of you who
are managing remote teams and you don't
have the luxury of seeing everyone
in person on a daily basis and even if
you are a leader who usually sees people
in the office
so many of us throughout the global
pandemic have had
to pivot and figure out how to use
zoom meetings or other virtual platforms
to connect with our teams
on a regular basis at my job i remember
a year and a half ago so late 2019
we didn't have any zoom meetings like it
was either a phone call
or it was an in-person meeting and today
i averaged three or four zoom meetings
per day and that is probably many of you
who are watching this video
you went from not using zoom very often
to using it
incredibly frequently there are a few
key tips that i believe
are essential for any leader to be
considered an effective communicator
over zoom the first especially if you
haven't used zoom before
you need to know how the platform works
you need to
you can't have the issue of logging in
and your microphone's not working
or your webcam's not working or your
name you can't figure out how to change
your name or any of these things they
make you
look like a noob like an amateur at zoom
and
that right there it doesn't matter if
it's before you've said
anything people already will be
questioning your communication skills
because they'll realize that you don't
really understand
this technology or how zoom works and
you don't want to have that impression
you want to come across as you know what
you're doing you're prepared
you're ready to use the platform there's
a couple other things to keep in mind
to be a great leader and a great
communicator as a leader on
zoom one is to be looking directly at
the camera now eye contact is an
important skill to have
in regular public speaking face to face
when you're talking to a room and you're
looking around and you're making sure
that everyone is paying attention but on
zoom that looks a little bit different
because
eye contact is looking right at that
camera lens which might be awkward
because
everyone's faces might be below that and
you're tempted to look down at people's
faces as you're talking to them
but the truth is people are just going
to see your forehead you need to be
looking directly
at the camera lens because that is eye
contact for them
and it takes some getting used to it
takes some adjusting to be able to look
directly into that lens
but the more you practice that and focus
on it
maybe even have a sticky note reminder
on your computer to be looking there
it's going to come across as impactful
communication on zoom
the second tip has to do with virtual
backgrounds
and it's completely up to you how you
want to approach this i've heard
arguments for and against
i prefer not to use a virtual background
now i get it some people are in spaces
where they absolutely
they have a bunch of clutter or they're
in a difficult room where there's stuff
happening behind them and i understand
the temptation or sometimes the
necessity of using a virtual background
but there's a couple things to consider
one
is that from a psychology standpoint
it's actually been shown
that there's this little layer of
distrust that happens when somebody uses
a virtual background
because whether or not we know what's
happening subconsciously we
we question what is that person hiding
like why can't
i have my background normal why can't i
see what's behind them
and the person might not even realize
that they're thinking this but there is
that little subtle layer
and if you can eliminate that also
there i i've seen so many terrible
virtual backgrounds where it's
almost this green screen where the hair
is getting blending into the background
or they get up and walk into the
invisible ocean behind them
and they disappear into it and it takes
away from the professional setting so if
it's possible to have a backdrop
or even just a nice painting behind you
or something like that
in a clean organized room i think that
comes across more positively
and again it's these little impression
things you're not actually
talking and physically communicating but
they still
impact people's impressions which will
impact how they think
and see you as a communicator the final
tip and this is perhaps the most
important tip and that is if you are
leading a meeting really take charge
and call people out specifically to
answer
questions i have been part of so many
meetings
where there's a general question that's
asked and
something along the lines of what are
what are everyone's thoughts on this
who who thinks that we should do this
and then there's silence they're
silenced for probably 20 seconds
and then finally two people go to speak
at the same time and they're oh sorry
sorry sorry
and it's painful it's honestly painful
as a leader what's much more effective
and people will feel like they're in a
more professional
zoom setting is to be able to
ask somebody directly brett what do you
think about this initiative and then
after
brett has answered what do you think
cindy do you agree with brett's point
calling people out specifically and
asking them to contribute
it again it's much more organized and
it's more enjoyable to be part of those
meetings
i hope these zoom slash virtual meeting
tips were beneficial
to you please if you like this content
consider subscribing to my youtube
channel and definitely check out the
other videos as
part of this playlist which is all about
effective communication for leaders i'll
catch you on the next one